Input the password that we plan to validate:

The user inputs a password into the password field.
To keep track of the password length, establish a pass_length variable and set it to 0:

The JavaScript code initializes a variable called myInput to represent the password input field.
The variable number represents the element with the id "number" (for number validation).
The variable length represents the element with the id "length" (for length validation).
To keep track of whether the password contains a number, establish a contains_number variable and initially set it to False:

The JavaScript code initializes the contains_number variable and sets it to false.
Has the entire password been searched?

If not, continue to step 5.

Event listeners are set up to respond to user actions on the password field.
The onfocus event displays the validation messages.
The onblur event hides the validation messages when the password field loses focus.
The onkeyup event triggers validation checks as the user types.
If so, skip to step 8.

Validation checks continue until the user finishes entering the password.
Iterate, or move to, the next character in the password:

The onkeyup event triggers iteration through each character in the entered password.
Increase the value of pass_length by 1:

The JavaScript code increments the pass_length variable for each character in the password.
Is the current character a number?

If not, go straight back to step 4 and continue to iterate over the entire password.
If the current character is not a number, the validation for containing a number is marked as invalid.
If so, set the contains_number variable to True and then go back to step 4.
If the current character is a number, the contains_number variable is set to True.
Is the pass_length greater than 8, and is contains_number equal to True?

If not, then the password is invalid.
If the length is less than 10 or if there is no number in the password, the validation messages indicate that the password is invalid.
If so, then the password is valid!
If the length is 10 or more, and there is at least one number, the validation messages indicate that the password is valid.




